Post on Go Contrib modules removal (code owners needed) (#4543)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2024/go-contrib-removal.md

- go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/go.mongodb.org/mongo-driver/mongo/otelmongo
- go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/gopkg.in/macaron.v1/otelmacaron
- go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/propagators/aws
- go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/samplers/aws/xray

For a full list of modules at risk for removal, see the
[Remove unowned moduled](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/projects/92/views/1)
project board.

## Why are those modules going to be removed?

As described in the Go Contrib
[contributions guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-owners),
all Contrib modules require a code owner so that the code is not abandoned. Code
owners have the responsibility of maintaining the component, responding to
issues, and reviewing pull requests.

## I want to become a code owner! What do I do?

To become a code owner, you just need to
[open an issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&projects=&template=owner.md&title=).

The only requirements is that you're a member of the OpenTelemetry organization

> and have a good working knowledge of the code you seek to maintain.

Reviewer: We also ask folks to have a good working knowledge of the code they wish to own.
Maybe this section should link to https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-owners?

Author: I think that's covered by 

> have a good working knowledge of the code you seek to maintain. 

Guidelines are linked in line 36.

---
title: Abandoned Go Contrib modules need code owners or will be removed
linkTitle: Go Contrib modules ownership
date: 2024-05-27
author: >-
  [Fabrizio Ferri-Benedetti](https://github.com/theletterf) (Splunk)
issue: 4542
sig: SIG Go
# prettier-ignore
cSpell:ignore: aws Benedetti Fabrizio Ferri gopkg labstack macaron moduled otelaws otelecho otellambda otelmacaron otelmongo otelmux
---

> The Go SIG will remove Contrib modules that lack code owners. For each module,

Reviewer 2: I think it's worth clarifying exactly what removal means and if the code will keep working for people. This will likely be top of mind for anyone.

Author: Excellent point. @pellared What's the fate of the "removed" modules?

Reviewer 3: Existing versions are still available (and not retracted). "Removed" means that no new versions will be published until a code owner is found.

Reviewer 4: In that case, "removed" isn't a good term, ... unless that's actually what you have in mind in the long term.

Ah, based on https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/issues/5542 for example, it seems that it is your intention to have a two-phased approach for modules w/o code owners:

- Deprecate
- Remove

If that's the case, then this post should reflect that. Also, to address the concerns raised by @cartermp, timeframes should be given for each  phase/stage.

Reviewer: The code will be removed from the repositories. But published packages/releases will remain available.

> The Go SIG will remove Contrib modules that lack code owners. For each module,
> the removal is planned for no sooner than August 21, 2024, unless a code owner
> is found. The list includes the following modules:

Reviewer 4: Two comments here:

- Maybe clarify that such modules are considered deprecated as of the date of this post
  - If this is the case, will they all be marked as deprecated by the SIG, e.g. https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/pull/5636?
- August 21 seems like an arbitrary day. Could it be EOM or maybe Sept 1? (See the suggestion below.)

Also, maybe this could be rephrased to read something like: 

```suggestion
The Go SIG will remove contrib modules that lack code owners starting September 1, 2024.

Currently unowned modules include the following:
```

Author: @pellared @dmathieu WDYT about the the above questions?

Reviewer 3: > If this is the case, will they all be marked as deprecated by the SIG,

Yes.

> August 21 seems like an arbitrary day

Let's please keep this date as we already have this date in a lot of places and change it will be a PITA 😉

> - `go.opentelemetry.io/otel/detectors/aws/ec2`

Reviewer 3: Can we add hyperlinks to https://pkg.go.dev? Example:

```suggestion
- [`go.opentelemetry.io/otel/detectors/aws/ec2`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/detectors/aws/ec2)
```

Same comment applies for other modules

Author: Applying now!

Author: @pellared @dmathieu The first four modules seem to be hosted on contrib, too, not in the code SDK. Could you confirm?

Reviewer 3: You are right.

- [`go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/propagators/aws`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/propagators/aws)
- [`go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/samplers/aws/xray`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/samplers/aws/xray)

For a full list of modules at risk for removal, see the
[Remove unowned moduled](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/projects/92/views/1)
project board.

## Why are those modules going to be removed?

As described in the Go Contrib
[contributions guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-owners),
all Contrib modules require a code owner so that the code is not abandoned. Code
owners have the responsibility of maintaining the component, responding to
issues, and reviewing pull requests.

## I want to become a code owner! What do I do?

To become a code owner, you just need to
[open an issue](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&projects=&template=owner.md&title=).

The only requirements is that you're a member of the OpenTelemetry organization

> and have a good working knowledge of the code you seek to maintain.

Reviewer 4: This needs some rework: the prerequisites need to be specified first, then a member can be directed to "just" open an issue.

Author: Yup!

- [`go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/gopkg.in/macaron.v1/otelmacaron`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/instrumentation/gopkg.in/macaron.v1/otelmacaron)
- [`go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/propagators/aws`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/propagators/aws)
- [`go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/samplers/aws/xray`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/contrib/samplers/aws/xray)

For a full list of modules at risk for removal, see the
[Remove unowned moduled](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/projects/92/views/1)
project board.

## Why are those modules going to be removed?

As described in the Go Contrib
[contributions guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#code-owners),
all Contrib modules require a code owner so that the code is not abandoned. Code
owners have the responsibility of maintaining the component, responding to
issues, and reviewing pull requests.

## I want to become a code owner! What do I do?

> To become a code owner of one of the modules, you need to be a member of the

Author: +1 let me add that.
